---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/1/
type: stop
section_title: Gender Roles in the Factory
title: Hear about Annies's experience of working in the factories
page_rank: 1
stop_id: 1
audio_file: GenderRolesFactory.m4a
hero_images:
 - path: annie-01.jpg
   alt_text: Annie O'Donnell working at her machine
 - path: 01-introduction-01.jpg
   alt_text: Tillie and Hendersons
---

This extract from an interview discusses the gender roles that existed within the factories.

## Interviewer

> You see in the cutting room, was it, was there many women who worked in the cutting room?

## Annie

> Naw, it was nearly always men like, in it. Any place ever I was it was men was in the cutting room. They rolled out that cloth and they had this wee machine that went round just, cutting out the shirts, you know?

## Interviewer

> Did that seem weird to you at the time, that it was all men in the cutting room? 

## Annie

> Aye, aye. See maybe you would have only had, the like of McBreartie’s, you would only have one cutter. You wouldn’t have had a whole lot of people there. Maybe somebody bringing up the big rolls of cloth and leaving it in the corner, and then the cutter rolled the cloth and did the cutting himself. That’s all was up there in that room, you know?

## Interviewer

> Was there ever any men on the machines?

## Annie

> In later years there was, young fellas came in . But not, not whenever I was, started work, there no machinist, men then. But in Ben Sherman there was. A good lot of them then came into learn. 

## Interviewer

> And that was toward the end?

## Annie

> The end, aye, aye, uhuh.

<b>Sounds of the Factory</b>

The sound at the beginning of the extract is the shirt factory horn that called the women and men to work in the morning. The end of the extract is the distinctive sound of a Singer Sewing Machine.


